# Function parameters

Some functions require **parameters to be specified when you are invoking them** — these are values that need to be included inside the function parentheses, which it needs to do its job properly. Parameters are sometimes called arguments, properties, or even attributes.

As an example, the browser's built-in `Math.random()` function doesn't require any parameters. When called, it always returns a random number between 0 and 1:

```js
const myNumber = Math.random();
```

The browser's built-in string replace() function however needs two parameters — the substring to find in the main string, and the substring to replace that string with:

```js
const myText = 'I am a string';
const newString = myText.replace('string', 'sausage');
```

Sometimes parameters are optional — you don't have to specify them. If you don't, the function will generally adopt some kind of default behavior. As an example, the array `join()` function's parameter is optional:

```js
const myArray = ['I', 'love', 'chocolate', 'frogs'];

const madeAString = myArray.join(' '); // returns 'I love chocolate frogs'
const madeAnotherString = myArray.join(); // returns 'I,love,chocolate,frogs'
```

A JavaScript function does not perform any checking on parameter values (arguments). Earlier in this chapter, you learned that functions can have parameters. Function **parameters** are the names listed in the function definition. Function **arguments** are the real values passed to (and received by) the function.

## Parameter Rules

- JavaScript function definitions do not specify data types for parameters.
- JavaScript functions do not perform type checking on the passed arguments.
- JavaScript functions do not check the number of arguments received.
- When you need to specify multiple parameters, they are separated by commas.

## Default Parameters

If a function is called with missing arguments (less than declared), the missing values are set to undefined. Sometimes this is acceptable, but sometimes it is better to assign a default value to the parameter:

```js
// Function WTHOUT default parameter
function myFunction(x, y) {
  if (y === undefined) {
    y = 2;
  }
}

// Funtion WITH default parameter
function myFunction(x, y = 2) {
  // function code
}
```

## The Arguments Object

JavaScript functions have a built-in object called the arguments object. The argument object contains an array of the arguments used when the function was called (invoked). This way you can simply use a function to find (for instance) the highest value in a list of numbers:

```js
x = findMax(1, 123, 500, 115, 44, 88);

function findMax() {
  let max = -Infinity;
  for (let i = 0; i < arguments.length; i++) {
    if (arguments[i] > max) {
      max = arguments[i];
    }
  }
  return max;
}
```

If a function is called with too many arguments (more than declared), these arguments can be reached using the arguments object.

## Arguments are _Passed by Value_ vs Objects are _Passed by Reference_

The parameters, in a function call, are the function's arguments. JavaScript arguments are passed by value: The function only gets to know the values, not the argument's locations. If a function changes an argument's value, it does not change the parameter's original value. Changes to arguments are not visible (reflected) outside the function.

In JavaScript, object references are values. Because of this, objects will behave like they are passed by reference: If a function changes an object property, it changes the original value. Changes to object properties are visible (reflected) outside the function.

References

1. [Functions — reusable blocks of code](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/JavaScript/Building_blocks/Functions)
